# Black-friday-purchase-prediction-using-python
Black Friday Sales Purchase Prediction is the task of predicting the purchase amount of customers during the annual Black Friday sale based on different factors including but not limited to Gender, Age, Occupation, City Category, Duration of Stay in the Current City, Marital Status, and Product Categories. In the world of internet, e-commerce has become one of the mainstays of trade and millions of people across the world buy and sell items of everyday use on the internet. Hence, it becomes very important to analyze the data of millions of customers, possibly hundreds of billions of transactions on a daily basis, build models and establish trends.
In this report, I have documented the procedure I followed to predict the purchase amount of a customer from the given dataset. The first step was Data Understanding, followed by Data Pre-processing, which included handling missing values and Feature Engineering. I added a few features like User Score, Product Score, and Category Count. User Score is the total number of purchases of a customer when compared to the maximum number of purchases of a customer. Similarly, Product Score is the number of times a product was bought when compared to the maximum number of times a particular product was bought.
These features are calculated relative to the values present in the dataset. Category Count is a cumulative score of how many categories are present in each transaction completed by a customer. These three new features turned out to be very useful in predicting the purchase amount as they had a high correlation with the purchase amount. I attempted to predict the purchase amounts of customers using both linear regression and xgboost based regression techniques. The final step was to compare the results obtained from all the aforementioned models and rank them accordingly. 
By predicting the amount a customer might spend during Black Friday Sale, companies could predict which products would be sold the most, products based on the geographical locations and by identifying these trends, they can come up with better offers for sets of customers. At the end of the day, since profits are a major factor for companies to strive and thrive, the above trends can prove to be a game changer and may lead to added sales and revenue, making it a win-win situation for everyone. This project is analyse the data of Black Friday sales and get more insights to answer the key business questions as below. 
• Which Product category has highest sales 
• Finding purchase value based on occupation
• Finding the buyer's city and their product of interest
• Finding the marital status of the buyers 
• Analysing the gender group, which group has high interest in the sales
